README.md, before:

# Sonoff Homekit

This firmware makes the **Sonoff WIFI Smart Switch** compatible with **Apple Homekit**!

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/sonoffonly.png" alt="Sonoff" width="180"/> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/transparent.png" alt=" " width="20"/><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/homekit.png" alt="Works with Apple Homekit" width="180"/>

### Homekit runs on the Sonoff ! 😳

Unlike other projects on github, this firmware does NOT require anything else in order to work.
It is not based on the Tasmota Fw, you don't need HomeBridge running on a Raspberry-Pi or an MQTT server, since HomeKit runs natively are enough a Wi-Fi connection and an Apple Device!

The implementation use Apple provided specifications for developers, so it is a stable and supported software and it will keep working for a long time.

Now you finally can have a HomeKit devices without spending a lot of money!

### Compatible Devices
This Software is currently tested on: **Sonoff Basic**, **Sonoff Slampher**, **Sonoff S26** (thanks Arjan)

### Video Demo

Click on the image for play the video:
<br>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=_PLeu4v50h0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_PLeu4v50h0/0.jpg" 
alt="Video" width="480" height="270" border="10" /></a>

---

## New Functionalities

### Web Page Controller
For control your Sonoff from a non Apple device just navigate to the Sonoff IP address and a web page will allow you to turn it on or off

### Rest APIs
A full set of Rest APIs are available:
* **/on**
* **/off**
* **/toggle**
* **/state**

All the request are in **GET** and are relative to the IP address of the Sonoff.
In order to turn on the Sonoff at IP 192.168.0.22 you can: `$ curl 192.168.0.22/on`

### AutoReconnect after power outage
A problem with the old firmware was that after a power outage the Sonoff was immediately searching for the stored WIFI connection, but since the router was still powering on the Sonoff was prompting the configuration procedure. Now this problem is fixed, if the Sonoff does not have a WIFI Connection every 10min the Sonoff will restart.

### Selectable PowerOn state
By default the Sonoff will have a Enabled state at power on, you can change this by selecting "OFF" in the `flash.sh` script

---

## Installation Instructions

### Flash the Sonoff
 1) Unplug your sonoff from the power line _(or you can burn your PC)_
 2) Connect your Sonoff to a serial adapter @ 3.3v
 3) Run the `flash.sh` script 

### Add Sonoff to Home app
 1) Connect your iPhone or iPad to the new wifi network `Sonoff Switch-xxx`
 2) Wait for the Captive Portal and select your WiFi network
 3) Insert your WiFi Password
 4) Open the `Home` app
 5) Click the `+` symbol
 6) Click `I don't have the code...`
 7) Select the Sonoff-xxx Switch 
 7.1 If the Sonoff-xxx does not appear on top of the page try to press the sonoff button a couple of times and kill the Home App
 9) Confirm that you want to add the Sonoff
 10) Insert the Password that is `11111111`

Done! 🎉 

## If you like this project please:

<a href="https://bmc.xyz/l/SonoffHomekit" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/buymeacoffee.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="300" ></a>

My supporters will also receive immediately:

* A **Step-by-Step Video Tutorial** that will help you to flash and connect your Sonoff
* A personal **E-Mail** where you can write to me your Issues

---

#### Special thanks to:
@maximkulkin

This project would not have existed without:
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit-demo
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wifi-config

Commit message:

Added an erase.sh script that will erase the Sonoff's flash to fix WiFi connectivity issues

README.md, after:

# Sonoff Homekit

This firmware makes the **Sonoff WIFI Smart Switch** compatible with **Apple Homekit**!

<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/sonoffonly.png" alt="Sonoff" width="180"/> <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/transparent.png" alt=" " width="20"/><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/homekit.png" alt="Works with Apple Homekit" width="180"/>

### Homekit runs on the Sonoff ! 😳

Unlike other projects on github, this firmware does NOT require anything else in order to work.
It is not based on the Tasmota Fw, you don't need HomeBridge running on a Raspberry-Pi or an MQTT server, since HomeKit runs natively are enough a Wi-Fi connection and an Apple Device!

The implementation use Apple provided specifications for developers, so it is a stable and supported software and it will keep working for a long time.

Now you finally can have a HomeKit devices without spending a lot of money!

### Compatible Devices
This Software is currently tested on: **Sonoff Basic**, **Sonoff Slampher**, **Sonoff S26** (thanks Arjan)

### Video Demo

Click on the image for play the video:
<br>
<a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=_PLeu4v50h0
" target="_blank"><img src="http://img.youtube.com/vi/_PLeu4v50h0/0.jpg" 
alt="Video" width="480" height="270" border="10" /></a>

---

## New Functionalities

### Web Page Controller
For control your Sonoff from a non Apple device just navigate to the Sonoff IP address and a web page will allow you to turn it on or off

### Rest APIs
A full set of Rest APIs are available:
* **/on**
* **/off**
* **/toggle**
* **/state**

All the request are in **GET** and are relative to the IP address of the Sonoff.
In order to turn on the Sonoff at IP 192.168.0.22 you can: `$ curl 192.168.0.22/on`

### AutoReconnect after power outage
A problem with the old firmware was that after a power outage the Sonoff was immediately searching for the stored WIFI connection, but since the router was still powering on the Sonoff was prompting the configuration procedure. Now this problem is fixed, if the Sonoff does not have a WIFI Connection every 10min the Sonoff will restart.

### Selectable PowerOn state
By default the Sonoff will have a Enabled state at power on, you can change this by selecting "OFF" in the `flash.sh` script

---

## Installation Instructions

### Flash the Sonoff
 1) Unplug your sonoff from the power line _(or you can burn your PC)_
 2) Connect your Sonoff to a serial adapter @ 3.3v
 3) Run the `flash.sh` script 

### Add Sonoff to Home app
 1) Connect your iPhone or iPad to the new wifi network `Sonoff Switch-xxx`
 2) Wait for the Captive Portal and select your WiFi network
 3) Insert your WiFi Password
 4) Open the `Home` app
 5) Click the `+` symbol
 6) Click `I don't have the code...`
 7) Select the Sonoff-xxx Switch 
 7.1 If the Sonoff-xxx does not appear on top of the page try to press the sonoff button a couple of times and kill the Home App
 9) Confirm that you want to add the Sonoff
 10) Insert the Password that is `11111111`

Done! 🎉 

## Troubleshooting

If the Captive Portal does not close after inserting your WiFi password (and also doesn't connect to your WiFi) then you can run the `erase.sh` script, which will completely erase your Sonoff's flash. After running `erase.sh` you should reflash the Sonoff by following the normal installation instructions. This will most likely solve the issue.

## If you like this project please:

<a href="https://bmc.xyz/l/SonoffHomekit" target="_blank"><img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Gruppio/Sonoff-Homekit/images/images/buymeacoffee.png" alt="Buy Me A Coffee" width="300" ></a>

My supporters will also receive immediately:

* A **Step-by-Step Video Tutorial** that will help you to flash and connect your Sonoff
* A personal **E-Mail** where you can write to me your Issues

---

#### Special thanks to:
@maximkulkin

This project would not have existed without:
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-homekit-demo
https://github.com/maximkulkin/esp-wifi-config
